# Warehouses

Initially, inventory levels for all of your products have to be entered
manually. From then on, inventory levels will be tracked automatically as orders
are filled. To set a product's inventory level, see
[SKUs](/web/liferay-emporio/documentation/-/knowledge_base/7.1/shipping-methods).
First, however, you must have your warehouses in order.

## Using a Single Warehouse

If you are operating with only one warehouse, there is no need to geocode its
location or enter exact coordinates. However, if you integrate your system with
a shipping company's (see 
[Shipping Methods](web/liferay-emporio/documentation/-/knowledge_base/7-1/shipping-methods)
for details), you will need to enter your warehouse's address to calculate
shipping costs.

+$$$

Before you can enter the address for a warehouse, you may need to enter and
activate the applicable country and region (state or province) at the
*Countries* tab at *Site Menu* &rarr; *Commerce* &rarr; *Settings*. For more
detail see
[Settings](web/liferay-emporio/documentation/-knowledge_base/7-1/settings#countries).

$$$

Follow these steps:

1.  Go to *Site Menu* &rarr; *Commerce* &rarr; *Settings* and click on the
    *Shipping* tab.

2.  Make sure the *Use Single Address* radio button is selected.

3.  Fill in the form, giving your warehouse a name and entering its address.
    Click *Save*.

## Using Multiple Warehouses [](id=using-multiple-warehouses)

If you are using more than one warehouse, then you need not only to track
inventories at different locations separately, but you also need a way to
determine from which warehouse a product should be shipped.

First, you need to enter the location of each warehouse. Follow these steps:

1.  Go to *Site Menu* &rarr; *Commerce* &rarr; *Settings* and click on the
    *Shipping* tab.

2.  Make sure the *Use Closest Warehouse* radio button is selected and click
    *Save*. A new tab, *Warehouses* appears at the top of the screen.

3.  Click on the *Warehouses* tab then on the ![Add](../images/icon-add.png)
    button. Enter a name, description, and address for the warehouse. The
    *Active* box must be checked before the warehouse can be used, but the
    latitude and longitude fields can be left blank for now (see *Geocoding*,
    below). Click *Save*.

4.  Repeat steps 2 and 3 until all of your warehouses have been added.

## Geocoding Warehouses [](id=geocoding-warehouses)

@commerce@ will automatically process orders so that products are shipped from
the closest warehouse. On its own, however, the software does not have the
capability to calculate which warehouse is closest to the delivery point solely
on the basis of street address---maintaining a record of the coordinates of
every address on the planet isn't in the mission profile.

The default solution is integration with Microsoft's Bing Maps, which Microsoft
makes available free of charge---though this depends on use case and volume. At
the time of this writing, instructions on obtaining a Bing API key were
published at 
[Microsoft Developer Network][https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ff428642.aspx].

Once you have an API key, follow these steps to set products to ship from the
closest available warehouse:

1.  Go to *Control Panel* &rarr; *Configuration* &rarr; *System Settings* and
    click on category.commerce &rarr; *Bing Geocoder*.

2.  Paste your key from Microsoft into the *API Key* field and click *Save*.

3.  Return to the *Warehouses* tab in *Site Menu* &rarr; *Commerce* &rarr;
    *Settings* and click ![options](../images/icon-options.png) &rarr;
    *Geolocate* for each facility.
